# Hooks reference

CSS Hooks provide an extensive range of options for state-driven styling,
enabling the creation of dynamic and interactive user interfaces. The collection
of available hooks is detailed below.

---

## User action hooks

These hooks apply style declarations conditionally in response to user actions.

### `hover`

The user triggers the `hover` hook by moving the cursor over the element without
necessarily clicking on it.

### `active`

The user triggers the `active` hook by clicking or pressing down on the element.

### `focus`

The `focus` hook is activated when the element receives focus, allowing it to
receive user input such as keyboard or mouse events. An element can receive
focus several ways, including tab key navigation, being clicked, or even
programmatically.

### `focus-visible`

The `focus-visible` hook is similar to the `focus` hook, but the user's browser
activates it selectively, when a visual indicator would be most helpful to the
user. For example, `focus-visible` would typically be activated when the element
receives focus via keyboard navigation, but it may not be activated when the
user clicks on the element.

### `focus-within`

The `focus-within` hook encompasses the behavior of the `focus` hook.
Additionally, it is active while a descendant element has focus.

---

## Input control hooks

These hooks are useful for form controls and interactive elements, allowing you
to style an element depending on its HTML attributes and/or state before and
after interaction.

### `disabled`

The `disabled` hook applies when the element is disabled. A common use case is
to provide a "grayed out" appearance that lets the user know the field is
disabled.

### `enabled`

The `enabled` hook applies when the element is not disabled.

### `read-write`

The `read-write` hook applies when the user can alter the element, e.g. when it
has the `contenteditable` attribute.

### `read-only`

The `read-only` hook applies when the user cannot alter the element.

### `placeholder-shown`

The `placeholder-shown` hook applies when the element has a placeholder (e.g. a
`placeholder` attribute) and the placeholder content is currently being shown
(e.g. before the user has entered a value).

### `autofill`

The `autofill` hook applies when the input element has been automatically filled
and the user has not changed the value subsequently.

### `default`

The `default` hook applies when the element represents the default among a set
of elements, such as a selected item in a list of options or the submit button
in a form.

---

## Input value hooks

Input value hooks apply based on the value of an input element, which can either
be set by the user, or reflect HTML attributes such as `checked` or `selected`.

### `checked`

The `checked` hook applies when the input element's `checked` attribute is set
or its checkedness state is `true` as a result of user action.

### `indeterminate`

The `indeterminate` hook applies when the checkbox, radio, or progress element
is in an indeterminate state as described in the
[HTML spec](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/semantics-other.html#selector-indeterminate).
The most common example is that of a checkbox input whose `indeterminate`
property is set to `true`.

### `valid`

The `valid` hook applies when the form element's value or content is valid with
respect to validity attributes such as `required` or `pattern`.

### `invalid`

The `invalid` hook applies when the form element's value or content is invalid
with respect to validity attributes such as `required` or `pattern`.

### `in-range`

The `in-range` hook applies when the form element's value is inside of the
allowable range, for example when the value of a range slider input is between
its `min` and `max` attribute bounds.

### `out-of-range`

The `out-of-range` hook applies when the form element's value is outside of the
allowable range, for example when the value of a number input is greater than
its `max` attribute bound.

### `required`

The `required` hook applies when the form element has a `required` attribute.

---

## Structural hooks

The structural hooks apply to an element based on its location within the
document tree.

### `empty`

The `empty` hook applies when the element has no children.

### `odd-child`

The `odd-child` hook applies when the element is preceded by an even number of
sibling elements.

### `even-child`

The `even-child` hook applies when the element is preceded by an odd number of
sibling elements.

### `first-child`

The `first-child` hook applies when the element has no previous siblings.

### `last-child`

The `last-child` hook applies when the element is not followed by any sibling
elements.

### `only-child`

The `only-child` hook applies when the element has no sibling elements.

### `first-of-type`

The `first-of-type` hook applies when the element has no previous sibling of the
same type (HTML tag).

### `last-of-type`

The `last-of-type` hook applies when the element has no next sibling of the same
type (HTML tag).

### `only-of-type`

The `only-of-type` hook applies to an element with no siblings of the same type
(HTML tag).

---

## Location hooks

Location hooks are related to links or linked sections within the document.

### `visited`

This hook is activated when the element is an anchor element linking to a
document that the user has previously visited.

### `target`

The `target` hook applies when the element matches the URI fragment identifier,
i.e. the portion following the `#` character.

---

## Media feature hooks

### `dark`

The `dark` hook applies when the user agent indicates a dark mode preference via
the `prefers-color-scheme: dark` media query.
